Hello everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, Ricardo Lobs. And today I'm
joined by Doctor Bella De Palo. She is the
leading expert on single life. She actually coined the
term single at heart. And today we're going to
talk exactly about that because we are focusing on
her latest book, Single At Heart, The Power of
Freedom and Heart Feeling Joy of Single life. So
Doctor De Palo, welcome to the show. It's a
pleasure to everyone.
Thank you so much for having me.
So let me start by asking you this. We're
going to talk about who these single at heart
people are. But first of all is your book
uh about people who are just temporarily single, single
for life both and the, it's, it's about them
and also for them. I mean, what exactly is
going on
here? Ok. So the book is about people who
are single at heart and they are people who
love being single and want to stay single for
them. And I'm one of them. Single life is
our best life. So it's our most meaningful, fulfilling,
authentic, the joyful and psychologically rich life. People who
are single at heart are s are happy and
flourishing because they're single, not in spite of it.
So, the book is mostly about them, but lots
of people don't realize that single life is their
best life until they've tried several romantic relationships, maybe
even several marriages and realize that even if they
are in a relationship with someone they love and
who loves them back, it just doesn't feel right.
And so, um, you know, they might have spent
a lot of their lives not being single and
the book is for them and it is also
even for people who are single and maybe don't
wanna stay single. But they're curious about what it's
like to flourish when single or it's also for
the parents and maybe even some friends and family
of single people who have this single person in
their life, you know, their son or daughter, if
it's parents or relative or friend who doesn't seem
like they wanna get married or even be in
a romantic relationship and maybe they're really worried about
them and if they read this book they might
realize maybe there's nothing to be worried about, maybe
they're living a great life.
Yeah. That's the thing. That's, uh, the reason why
I asked you if this book is also for
people who are temporarily single but not necessarily single
at heart or don't want to be single for
the rest of their lives because a and we're
going to get more into this point. But I
guess that it's safe to say that one of
the points you want to drive home with your
book is that even if you are temporarily single
and want to look for another relationship, it's not
the end of the world. If you are single
for a few months, even a few years, because
there's many things that, uh, that are valuable that
you can do with your life and that happens
to a ton of people.
Yes, for sure. In fact, it's best not to
think of it as, oh, poor me. I'm single.
But oh, let me think about the opportunities I
have here to do things I like to do.
Maybe, especially things I might not do. Once I
find my romantic partner, it's an opportunity to spend
as much time with your friends or anyone else
that you like being with or are caring for
without worrying that some romantic partner thinks that more
of that time belongs to them. So it is
a great opportunity,
by the way, do single at heart. People also
include people who are actually never actively looking for
a new partner, but they just never completely close
themselves to the possibility of falling in love with
someone if that happens.
You know, I think that people you are describing
now are what Sasha Kagan calls quirky alone, which
is that they truly appreciate their single lives, but
they're open to someone who meets their very high
standards so they're not gonna be in a romantic
relationship just to be in a romantic relationship. But
they are interested.
And I mean, do we have any idea at
all about how many single at heart people are
out there? I mean, do we have good statistics
on that?
Um It's really hard to tell because it's not
a concept that's out there. So m most people
don't have never heard of this. They don't realize
that there's such a thing as loving, being single
and wanting to stay single. But I can give
you some estimates. Um I have an online quiz
called Are You Single at Heart. It's also in
the book and more than 20,000 people from 100
nations, more than 100 nations have taken it. And
um 29% of them identify as clearly single at
heart, but it's not a representative sample. It's just
people who find out about the quiz and take
it. So another estimate comes from um a study
of thousands of German adults who are solo single.
So they don't have a romantic partner, they're not
married, they're not cohabiting. And of those 21% say
they're, they don't want a romantic partner. So I
think, you know, that the numbers are gonna be
substantial, but we won't really know what they are
until the idea becomes more widely known. And people
realize that this wanting to stay single for positive
reasons because you appreciate all that single life has
to offer is a really good thing. And once
that way of thinking about it gets out there,
then more people will understand themselves that way and
they won't feel as many do now that they
can't really admit that they love being single and
want to stay single because people think there's something
wrong with you. If that's how you feel,
by the way, uh, you mentioned the quiz you
have in your book. How can one find out
that they are single at heart?
Oh, you can take the quiz and um there's
a answer key at the end of it. So
you can either find it in my book or
online. Another thing is even better is to read
my single at heart book and see how much
you identify with the stories of people who are
single at heart
and what are, what tend to be the psychological
traits of people who are single at heart. Do
they have particular psychological traits or?
Yeah, you know, people who are single at heart
really care about authenticity. So they want to be
their true selves. They want to live a life
that reflects who they really are rather than just
doing what they're expected to do what everyone thinks
you should do. And with that comes a certain
level of confidence because to go against the grain,
you know, you do need to have some confidence
in yourself there are also studies showing that people
who enjoy spending time alone, which the single at
heart do um are more open to experiences, they're
less likely to be neurotic. So it's a very
positive psychological profile.
A actually about that. I, I wanted to ask
you because since we have a and we're going
to talk a little bit more about that later
in our conversation. But since we have this sort
of uh norm across virtually all societies that tells
us that people should want to be coupled, should
want to have a partner, should want to have
a romantic relationship, be married and so on. It's
very easy for us to pathologize people just say
that they don't want any of that. They are
not interested in that. And for example, I would
imagine that many even clinical psychologists would say that
for example, some someone who claims that has, for
example, an avoidant attachment style or something like that.
But I mean that that perhaps is not necessarily
the case, right? Probably there's nothing psychologically wrong with
them.
Yeah. In fact, they may be pictures of psychological
health because they have the confidence to live their
best life rather than just following the crowd. Um
You know, they're of single people who are avoidant
attached. I think they are more likely to be
the single people who don't want to be single.
So the single at harsh are not people who
are running away from romantic relationships because they don't
like them or they've been burned or, you know,
they have issues. They are people who are drawn
to single life in very positive ways because they
like the freedom it offers them, they like the
opportunity to be themselves. They like the, the opportunity
to spend time alone and to value all different
kinds of people rather than just putting one person,
a romantic partner, the center of your life
and is being single at heart. Something that is
in any way innate or is it something that
people develop? Do we have any idea about that?
Yeah. There's no really good research on that yet.
But my impression from all the work I've done
and the interviews and so forth is that being
single at heart is something more than a lifestyle.
So, people who are single at heart are powerfully
drawn this single life, that's what really feels comfortable,
authentic and true. So, whether it's innate, I don't
know if I can go that extra step, but
it's certainly more than just. Oh, I think I'll
be single for a while.
So it's probably, if not innate, at least the,
there's a strong psychological predisposition for that.
Yes. Yeah. That's a good way to put it.
Uh, AND are there any gender differences here? I
mean, is it more common among men than women
or vice versa?
Yes. This is surprising to a lot of people
including myself. Um, YOU know, generally, if you look
at single people in general, women usually do better
at being single, they're better at cultivating friendships and
they know how to do all the household chores
and, and all that. So they're good at it.
But when you look at this so upset of
single people, the ones who are single at heart,
who love being single and are powerfully drawn to
that life. There are a little few more men
than women. I mean, there are substantial numbers of
men and women but that it actually helps a
little towards more for the men. And when you
think about being single heart at heart, you know,
like it's people who like their freedom, they like
um getting to be the deciders, uh they like,
you know, it makes sense in a way but
it wasn't something I anticipated
and what kinds of opportunities the single hood offer
people.
Yeah. You know, the main thing is to um
follow your heart and yet to do whatever it
is, you know, within the limits of your resources
and opportunities that you find fulfilling and that might
mean pursuing opportunities to learn and grow, like pursuing
your education or unique experiences or travel. It could
mean for some people, it means um be there
for the people who need you. It could include
being there for your communities and your nation. It
could be um creating your own path through life.
So rather than the standard, you know, I'm gonna
meet someone and move in and get married and
have kids. You create your own life path. It
could mean, um, this surprised me a little bit
too, choosing meaningful work rather than work that pays
a lot. If you can't have both. Now you
can't do that the whole time and you have
to pay your bills and, you know, as a
single person, you don't have a spouse or, you
know, partner to, um, we have financial backstop. So
you got to do something. But beyond that single
people like or single at heart, people like doing
meaningful work. Um, IT might mean reimagining um holidays
so that you spend them in unique ways that
are uh special to you. There's just, uh the
big picture is you live your life in accordance
with your interests and values and passions without being
bandied about by the wishes or needs or interests
of a partner. Now, I'm, and I'm saying that
you can have a partner who's not at all
controlling and still what they like to do, what
they like to eat, what, where they like to
go, that kind of influences you. Um And I
think really interesting example of that happens when people
are married for a long time and then they
are divorced or widowed and at first that can
be a really crushing experience. But over time, some
people find that single life is really fulfilling and
they start to learn things about themselves and it's
almost like coming home to themselves.
You know, one particular thing that really bothers me,
uh, hearing people, I mean, sometimes reacting to when
they hear certain people that are single saying that
they don't want a partner because they just want
to wake up in the weekend, whatever time they
want to go to bed, whatever time they want
to do whatever they want without having to, uh,
tell anything to anybody. I mean, they just organize
their day the way they want. Sometimes people react
to that and say, oh, you just want to
avoid respon. But I, I mean, that doesn't make
much sense. Right. Because actually you're even more responsible
for your own life because you have to decide
on your own what to do when to do.
And I, I mean, if something bad happens you
have no one to,, complain to, I mean, no
one to, to, to,, to say there, uh, I
mean, it's their fault. It's your own fault in
a sense.
Right. Yeah. Um, I wouldn't say they don't have
anyone because often they have more friends, more different
people in their lives. But I, but I see
what your, what your point is there. Yeah. I
mean, they are, you know, they're in charge of
their own life. So, the, the good part about
that is they get to decide and do what
they want and have a life they want. But
the, the downside is that they have to cover
everything. Right. So they've got to pay all their
own bills and, you know, do their, do all
the chores that a couple might, might split up
between them and, and so there's that, but even
that the thing about all the different chores and,
you know, who takes care of the finances and
who takes care of the car and who does
the dishes and who does the laundry, even all
of that. It can be a positive in the
long run for people who stay single because they
either learn how to do all those things themselves
or they figure out how to find someone to
help or to hire. And what that means is
when they get to later life. And some people
who were married or, um, had a close romantic
live in relationship when that ends by divorce or
widowhood, they either don't know how to do the
things their partner used to do where they're out
of practice. And at a time that can already
be very difficult. Putting on top of that, having
to learn or relearn how to do these tasks
of everyday life can make it even harder. And
meanwhile, the single people have been single, all their
lives are just, you know, going around, going along,
doing what they've learned to do a long time
ago.
So I, I guess that one very common question
or thing that people would worry about when it
comes to single hood is uh solitude. So, is
that something that single at heart? People experience a
lot. And if so how do they deal with
it?
Yes, this is something else that surprised me. So
I really enjoy the time. I have to myself,
I craved it. I, I would not be a
happy person if I had to be around people
all the time. Although I like being with other
people, just not all the time. And so I
figured once I did my research, I'd find that
people who are single at heart, so kind of
like their solitude. What I did not anticipate is
that of the people who told me their life
stories. Every one of them said that they loved
having time to themselves. The people said it was
like breathing. And so that was something that was
surprising. And that is another strength of people who
are single at heart. I actually think of it
like a superpower because if you are comfortable on
your own, spending time on your own, you're very
unlikely to feel lonely. And this love of being
on your own has gotten the single at heart
through the pandemic, the worst of it. And it
also means that as we grow older, I'm already
70. So I'm good. Um As we grow older,
we are very unlikely to be the caricature of
an old single person who's isolated and lonely. We're
unlikely to be lonely because we like our time
alone in and we're unlikely to be lonely because
we pay attention to and nurture our ties to,
uh, whatever people we value without making our lives
all about one person. Mhm.
Uh, BY the way about not making our lives
about just one person. What kind, what other kinds
of relationships can single at heart? People devote themselves
to.
Oh. Well, many of them have close friendships. Many
have, uh, relatives that they care a lot about.
They might have mentors, colleagues, teammates, et cetera, and
some people who are single at heart to have
romantic relationships, but they don't want to put that
partner the center of their life. So they don't
want to do what sometimes is called riding the
romantic relationship, escalator. You start with dating and then
maybe you date steadily and maybe you move in
together and get married and maybe you have kids
and all the rest. Instead they want to um,
have these relationships more casually and they're very upfront
about it. So no one's getting tricked or manipulated
a and do lots of single at heart. People
feel the need to have kids.
Um, TWO people who are single at heart are
less likely to have kids than those who are
not single at heart. But many people who are
single at heart do have kids. And rather than
telling these tales of woe that you hear so
much about all those poor single parents, they often
describe a special bond with their Children and they
feel that their Children have some advantages. So they
are never gonna be caught in a battle between
their parents. They're not gonna be in a household
with parents who are at each other's throats or,
um, treating each other coldly giving them the silent
treatment and so forth. Uh, SO they tell a
very positive stories about having Children
and I mean, on the point of solitude and
sometimes feeling lonely, isn't it also the case that
even p people can also sometimes feel lonely even
if they are with another person?
Yes. In fact, anecdotally, I've heard several times that
people say that the loneliest feeling is feeling alone
when you're with a romantic partner because here's this
person who's been held up to you as the
answer to loneliness is supposed to protect you from
that. So when you have that and you still
feel lonely, it's a very painful kind of loneliness.
And I, I mean, in terms of life outcomes
because that's something that many people care about. And
there's some studies out there that people have run
for decades about what people need in life, for
them to be psychologically healthy, for them to experience
well being and have good life outcomes. How do
long lifelong single people compare to a couple of
people when it comes to?
Well, you know what, what usually happens if you've
heard over and over again? Oh, you know, married
people do better than single people. That is a
comparison based on what I call the cheater technique.
So you take people who are currently married and
you compare them to people who are currently single
and if the married people are doing better, you
say, ha ha. Look at that marriage makes people
happier. Well, you are ignoring all the people who
got married and got divorced and they didn't get
divorced because they were so happily married. And that
could be as many as, you know, maybe 43%.
So it's a huge number. If you wanna know
if marriage um makes people happier, you can't really
know that saying it makes people happier is a
causal um statement which is hard to demonstrate because
you can't randomly assign people to be married or
single. But what you can do which is a
close approximation. Not perfect is to follow the same
people over the course of their adult lives and
ask them every year, how happy are you? How
happy are you? How happy are you and keep
track of whether they're single or married? And there
have been well over a dozen studies like this
that go on for years and include thousands of
people. And what they typically find is that people,
couples who get married, um feel a little happier
around the time of the wedding. You know, it's
a very exciting time. Everybody's giving them presents and
congratulating them. But then after a while, they go
back to being as happy or as unhappy as
they were when they were single. And very importantly
that um that period of happiness at the beginning,
researchers sometimes call it the honeymoon effect. That only
happens for people who get married and stay married,
for people who eventually divorce. And the researchers know
this because they have data on them for years
and years years. So the people who eventually divorce
were already getting a little less happy as their
wedding day approached, instead of getting more happy, which
is what typically happens with people who get married
and stay married. Now, I should also say that
every social science study is based on averages. So
I'm describing the average findings and they're always exceptions,
right? A a and I mean, since we're also
talking about marriage, something that came to mind right
now. Uh uh I mean, I was thinking about
people who are, who we are obviously always, I
mean, not always but very commonly in contact with
that are actually single at heart. People like priests
like monks like, I don't know, there are even
political activists that just dedicate themselves to their political
activities. Uh People who do volunteer work that uh
I mean, just are interested in those kinds of
things and I mean, those are all meaningful ways
of living that no one would question
for sure. Yes.
So, and, and are there in terms of life
outcomes are there particular differences between people who are
reluctantly single and the ones that are really single
at heart.
Yes. So people who are single at harsh are
more likely to be happy than people who are
not single at heart because they have what they
want. You know, they wanna be single and they
are single. Um, THEY also are especially likely to
get happier and happier as they grow older, which
is contrary to the stereotype of single people, you
know, those poor single people and they're just gonna
get sadder and lonelier as they grow older. Well,
no, another thing is that people who want to
be single tend to invest in their friends. So
they take their friendships more seriously, they value them
more and it's a virtuous cycle where the more
they value their friends, the happier they are with
their single lives and the happier they are with
their single lives, the more they value their friends
and people who are single at heart are also
protected from the painful experience of single people who
don't want to be single of what's called ambiguous
loss. And that means, you know, they don't know
if they're ever gonna get what they want. So
they're in this ambiguous space where they might get
the life they want or they might not.
And do you think that single people are victims
of discrimination in the society?
Oh, absolutely. Yes. Um, IN the United States, for
example, there are hundreds of laws that benefit and
protect only people who are legally married. So that's
a big one and it's not just in the
United States, there are also policies and practices that,
that favor married people. So for example, in some
workplaces, um single people are expected to cover for
married people if they wanna leave early or if
they want to be with their spouse for some
reason. And excuse me, and that there are also,
um, ways that the people in the lives of
married people are valued and favored. So, for example,
in the United States we have what's called family
and medical leave act. And that means you can
take time off to care for someone who needs
help if that person is, um, your parent, your
child or your spouse. Mhm. Single people can take
time off from their parent or their child if
they have one but they don't have anyone in
the spouse slot. So I can't take time off
under this law to care for a close friend
or a sibling or, you know, someone else I
really care about or maybe there's someone I'm not
that close to, but I want to be there
for them because I care about them and I
can't do that and none of those people can
take time off to care for me.
Uh, THIS is actually something very negative in terms
of politics, policy wise because since we tend to
cater, uh, our policies to couples and families. I
mean, there are many single people out there that
when they get older, I mean, they will experience
some, I mean, negative things, some hardships, not, not
uh it's not their own fault, but just the
way society is structured.
Oh, sure, sure. In the United States, the health
care system is very focused on um conventional families.
So you might, a hospital might require that you
have a ride, um, back from a procedure, let's
say you go in as an inpatient for procedure
where there might be, um, some anesthesia. Well, they
will require that you have somebody to take you
home and they won't let you use a taxi
or an Uber or something like that. Well, that's
kind of assuming that, you know, you have a
spouse who's gonna be available and pick you up
and even people who are married don't always have
a spouse is available. Uh, SO it's very geared
toward, um, a conventional model that most people are
not even living in anymore. So, in the United
States, if you were to knock on doors at
random, you would more often be met with a
single person living alone than a household of mom,
dad and the kids.
So I, I guess that this sort of discrimination
we've just talked about already points to at least
one aspect of this next question. But why do
you think it is so hard for many single
people to realize that it is fine. It is
ok for them to stay single.
Oh, yeah. Well, it starts with the way that
single people are viewed are conventional wisdom, which of
course, is not very wise that insists that, um,
it's not natural or normal to stay single or
to want to be single and that's just not
even questions. So, if that's the kind of world
view you're exposed to, it makes it hard to
understand that single life can be your best life
also. Um Think about who is celebrated, who's respected.
It's of course, people who get married or get
into romantic relationships and think about um movies, TV,
shows song lyrics, novels, they all disproportionately celebrate people
who become romantically coupled. I mean, where do you
ever find a single character who loves being single
and wants to stay single and is not stigmatized
for it? Well, you don't even find them at
all, much less how they people react to them.
So it's just, you know, it's just not out
there and that results in something that's really amazing,
which is that people who love their single life,
some people who love their single life um come
to doubt themselves. So I think I love being
single. I wonder if there's something wrong with me.
How ridiculous is that, that you have, what so
many people crave a life that you love and
instead of feeling proud, you're thinking, oh, what's wrong
with me? That I have this life that I
love because it's a single life and I am
trying to, uh, with my single heart book and
my other writings and talks really push back on
that.
Well, I guess that everyone wears some traits that
fall outside of the norm, experience some of that
to some extent. I mean, they sometimes question themselves
if they question if they are normal or not,
if there's something wrong with them. I mean, it's
not only in the case of single people, but
I mean, that's there all the time,
right? Oh, sure. Um And so for example, people
who are not heterosexual have been stigmatized for a
very long time and still are to some extent.
But there is much more awareness that um being
not heterosexual and all its many varieties of not
things. So, uh is not something to be worried
about or self conscious about, but rather it can
be, you know, very fulfilling life and the best
life for people who em embrace it. And that's
something that single people, regardless of their uh sexual
or gender orientation or identity don't have yet. I
mean, my single heart book, I hope is pushing
us toward that. But we really um lag behind
in cultural consciousness, social justice movements and so forth.
Uh But uh I mean, where do you think
that the social stigma against chronically single people stems
from, I mean, at a certain point there you
mentioned for example, movies and other forms of art
and artistic expressions where we see all the time
that, uh, the hero or the main character always
asked to fall in love with someone and went
to have a partner. But apart from that, do
you think that perhaps, uh, I mean, and of
course, I don't want to reduce everything to that,
but since even biologically speaking, we are a sexually
reproducing species that perhaps it has anything to do
with that.
Oh, well, yeah. But you can have sex without
being married. Uh, AND also I think another big
part of that, um, of the stigmatizing of single
people again comes from our worldviews. So lots of
people want to believe that if you just find
that one person commit to that person that you
really will live happily ever after that, that's not
a fairy tale. It's truth that once you find
that person, all the pieces of your life fall
in place and now you have your sexual partner
and your confidant and your co financial manager and
your co parent if you have kids and all
the rest and that can be a very seductive
promise, you know, find this one person and you're
done. And, and also people really believe that that
is the one through path to happiness and fulfillment.
And they want to believe that so single people
who stay single are stigmatized because they threaten that
worldview and the single people, several studies have shown
who are especially likely to be put down like
the single people who like being single and again,
single people who wanna stay single, who like being
single are threatening that worldview that there's one royal
route to happiness and it's through romantic coupling.
And by the way, I would imagine that this
sort of stigma would extend to people who just
are not particularly interested in committed relationships. But when,
for example, casual relationships, casual sex, short term relationships
and all of that,
yes, I think that um they are subject to
um stigma or at least harsh judgments
and by the way about that about sex do
single, I mean, what do the sex lives of
single let heart people look like? I mean, are
at least some of them having sex even if
it's just casual or?
Yes. Yes. So it's a whole variety of things.
Some have um you know, friends with benefits, some
uh get together casually and they make sure their
partners know about it. Some don't have sex and
don't want it. So it really is uh the
whole gamut. One person told me about uh being
in college when she was in college, she had
hookups and those are often, you know, considered uh
bad by some of the people who um our
pundits. But she said that she loved that because
her sex life was compartmentalized. So she had this
sex life, but then it didn't interfere with the
rest of her life. So it didn't mean that
she felt obligated to do stuff with their partner.
She got to do all the other things in
college. She loved doing like focus on her courses
or her friends or her interests. So
how do you react? Uh Still talking about sex?
How do you react to uh uh some of
those statistics that sometimes we come across about the
percentage of mostly young adults that uh have gone
without sex for a year or more or more
and so on because usually people get really worried
about that. But do you think that perhaps uh
those statistics alone are not informative enough because maybe
just, maybe some of these people are even not
that interested in sex to begin with?
Exactly. Exactly. So it's worrisome if the people really
do want sex and they're not getting it. Sure.
But in one way it's good is if these
statistics mean that more and more people who don't
want to have sex no longer feel as much
pressure to have sex or people who don't want
to have sex as often don't feel as pressured.
And you can see that happening in a way
through um the growth of the a sexuality movement
where people who are not attracted to particular, other
people um come out as asexuals and they have
a lot of social support from other asexuals and
there's a social movement about it. So that helps
uh but another thing to keep in mind is
that and attitudes towards sex are important in shaping
how people feel about having sex or not having
sex. So, when it is so valued and celebrated,
that makes people who don't have sex, um, feel
badly about themselves. When, you know, if we were
a little more realistic about it, maybe there would
be a little less pain for people who we're
not having sex but wish they were.
You know, sometimes it crosses my mind how society
would look like in terms of how we think
about sex and sexless people. If we just thought,
if we didn't make a big deal of it,
if we just thought that, I mean, if you
have sex, if you don't have sex, whatever, it
doesn't matter, it's not a big deal. I mean,
if you want to have sex, ok, then that's
perhaps something negative. But if you don't want to
have, if you do not have it whatever, I
mean, iii I just, sometimes I just imagine how
people would feel much, much better with themselves if
they didn't have that kind of social pressure and
if they were not ashamed of telling other people
that they, they haven't had sex for a while,
correct? You're describing a societal idea in my mind.
So do you think that your book also ties
in any way to some other changes in people's
ways of partnering that we have seen raising over
the past few decades with the decline of marriage,
for example.
Yeah, for sure. So I think the rise of
the single at heart and people who like being
single goes along with the increasing valuing of friendship.
I think people are starting to take their friends
more seriously and evaluate more. It also goes along
with um different ways of living that we're seeing
now, for example, couples who are committed to each
other, but don't want to live in the same
place. It's sometimes called living apart together. It's also
relevant, I think to other ways of living. For
example, um people who live in cohousing communities where
everyone has their own house or apartment and inside
the house or apartment might be any combination of
people that you'd find anywhere, you know, a solo
person or um a couple or 22 friends or
whatever. Um But a cohousing community is a community.
So they deliberately want to have social interaction with
each other. There's usually a common house where they
can meet for, for meals if they want to,
the common house often has um washers and dryers.
So everyone doesn't have it in their house and
they meet each other there and there are rooms
for pursuing interests like um maybe musical interests or
art or whatever. And so, um that too is
consistent with the development of, of different ways of
living, of more open mindedness about how we can
live, who we can value. And how to organize
a life.
Do you think that there are things in your
book that even people who are interested in romantic
relationships and are at the moment in romantic relationships
can bring into their own relationships that perhaps would
help them. They, with some, I don't know, negative
aspects of them.
Right. I think that if more people became familiar
with my single atte heart book, which I'm gonna
show you now, that's OK. This is it. So
I don't know if you can see it anyway.
OK. Couldn't resist. Um THAT I think couples would
do better because they would understand that if somebody
wants some space, it's not necessarily criticism of their
partner. It could mean they could understand that if
somebody wants to spend time with their friends apart
from their partner, that's not necessarily a criticism of
their partner. So I think it opens the door
to a more generous and less um less envious
or suspicious kind of interaction.
So just one last question then uh what would
be perhaps a message that you would have for
people out there that are currently single and perhaps
they experience all of these kinds of social pressures
that we've talked about here. And they are perhaps
not sure if they are actually single at heart
or not, but perhaps they at least want to
try to go through this period of their lives
as smoothly as possible.
I would tell them to live their single years,
fully joyfully and unapologetically.
OK. So that's a great uh note to end
on. And the book is again single at heart,
the power, freedom and heart, feeling, joy of single
life. I'm leaving a link to it in the
description of the interview. And Doctor Depalo. Uh Would
you like to tell people where they can find
you and your work on the internet?
Oh, sure. Um My website is Bella depalo.com, Bell
ad epa ulo.com, no spaces or dots or anything.
Um And on my website, you can find links
to my single at heart book, different places to,
to buy it. Um You can also find uh
links to lots of my other work, my blog
posts and so forth.
Great. So, thank you so much again for taking
the time to come on the show. It's been
a real pleasure to talk with you.
Thank you. I've loved talking to you. Great questions.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by N Lights learning
and development. Then differently check the website at N
lights.com and also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or paypal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
paypal supporters, Perego Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno
Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam, Castle Matthew Whitting
Bear. No Wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Connors, Philip
Forrest Connelly. Then the Met Robert Wine in Nai
Z Mar Nevs calling in Hobel, Governor Mikel Stormer
Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferger Ken Hall, her
J and Lain Jung Y and the Samuel K
Hes Mark Smith J. Tom Hummel s friends, David
Sloan Wilson Yaar, Roman Roach Diego, Jan Punter, Romani
Charlotte, Bli Nicole Barba, Adam Hunt, Pavlo Stassi na
Me, Gary G Almansa Zal Ari and YPJ Barboza
Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden Broner Douglas Fry Franca
Lati Gilon Cortez or Scott Zachary. Ftdw Daniel Friedman,
William Buckner, Paul Giorgio, Luke Loi, Georgio Theophano Chris
Williams and Peter Wo David Williams Di Costa, Anton
Erickson Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralie Chevalier,
Bangalore Larry Dey Junior, Old Ebon Starry Michael Bailey.
Then spur by Robert Grassy Zorn Jeff mcmahon, Jake
Zul Barnabas Radick Mark Temple, Thomas Dvor Luke. Neeson.
Chris Tory Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica. No week
in the B brand Nicholas Carlson Ismael Bensley Man
George Katis, Valentin Steinman, Perlis, Kate Van Goler, Alexander
Abert Liam Dan Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular Jer
Urla. Good enough, Gregory Hastings David Pins of Sean
Nelson Mike Levin and Jos Net. A special thanks
to my producers is our web, Jim Frank Lucani,
Tom Vig and Bernard N Cortes Dixon, Benedikt Muller
Thomas Rumble, Catherine and Patrick Tobin John Carl, Negro,
Nick Ortiz and Nick Golden. And to my executive
producers Matthew Lavender, Sergi, Adrian Bogdan Knit and Rosie.
Thank you for all.